# android-fire-alert

This is an Android App (client) that works together with https://github.com/mwilkowski80/fire-alert-server. You can learn more about its purpose there.

## Android App expert help appreciated

I am not a professional Android software developer. Hence, this code is mostly a hello-world app generated by the Android Studio itself customized to my needs. If You are an Android App expert and wish to help me clean it, You are more than welcome.

## Getting started

This app uses Firebase Cloud Messaging for communication with the server. You should create an FCM project as per the (fire-alert-server)[https://github.com/mwilkowski80/fire-alert-server] project. Then, You need to provide the FCM app config and save it as `google-services.json` file. You can read more at https://support.google.com/firebase/answer/7015592?hl=en#android&zippy=%2Cin-this-article.

Create a `custom.gradle` file from the `custom.gradle.template`. Replace `some_server` and `some_port` with the corresponding server name and port setting for HTTP protocol of the `fire-alert-server` project. This address will be used by the Android App to submit the FCM user token.  

Deploy and start the application.

## Known limitations/further development

Alert sound is non-configurable.

Application has to be started manually and run in the background (You should adjust Your battery saving settings to keep the application alive in the background).

Manifest.xml and the UI is very messy because generated from template.

Main icon is also generated from template and I never customized it.
